Ultimaker Cura Definition Files
===============================

The "cura_defaults" directory contain the "fdmprinter.def.json" and
"fdmextruder.def.json" files from Ultimaker Cura corresponding to the
CuraEngine in use. These files provide reasonable defaults for all settings.
They also define formulas for recomputing linked settings. Symple Slicer
will use these formulas to compute settings that aren't in the Machine or
Print Profiles and when updating linked settings.

Both "fdmprinter.def.json" and "fdmextruder.def.json" should be kept in sync
with upstream Ultimaker Cura and the installed CuraEngine. This ensures that
the correct settings will be used for the engine. These files should not be
modified to make it easy to replace them whenever the CuraEngine is upgraded.

In the case that a setting is required by CuraEngine but is otherwise missing
from the official Ultimaker Cura definitions files, they may be defined in
"fdmprinter_errata.def.json". This file may also be used to correct formulas
which are incorrect upstream.

Additional settings which may be used in start/end GCODE may be placed in
"fdmprinter_extras.def.json".

What is used from the Cura definition files?
============================================

In standard Cura, the definition files not only define the various printer
settings and the formulas used to update those settings, but it also sorts
those settings into categories and sets the hierarchy that is used in the
Cura UI. For simplicity, Symple Slicer does not use the categories and
settings hierarchy from standard Cura. Hence, the child/parent relationships
in "fdmprinter.def.json" are ignored. The settings and categories used by
Symple Slicer are instead hard coded in the file "js/SettingsPanel.js".

Symple Slicer Machine and Print Profiles
========================================

The profiles in "machine_profile" and "print_profiles" are used to override
defaults provided by the "cura_defaults" files. These files are specific to
Symple Slicer and do not have corresponding files in Ultimaker Cura. These
profiles are meant to be human-readable and follow the [TOML specification].

The printer profiles are used for printer and toolhead parameters; the print
profiles are used for material and quality parameters. No distinction is
made between printer/toolheads or material/quality because such settings are
often highly interrelated.

When writing profiles, the files in "cura_defaults" directory can serve as a
reference for the names and meanings of the settings that may be overriden.

Dealing Linked Settings and Settings Propagation
================================================ 

If a settings is overridden, the change will propagate to linked settings
according to the formulas in the files in the "cura_defaults" directory.

To understand how settings are linked, inspect the "value" and "resolve"
fields in "fdmprinter.def.json" and "fdmextruder.def.json" files for the
settings in question. These formulas specify how and when a setting will
change in response to a change to some other setting or settings.


[TOML specification]: https://github.com/toml-lang/toml